docs/websockets.md, before:


Starlette includes a `WebSocket` class that fulfils a similar role
to the HTTP request, but that allows sending and receiving data on a websocket.

### WebSocket

Signature: `WebSocket(scope, receive=None, send=None)`

```python
from starlette.websockets import WebSocket


async def app(scope, receive, send):
    websocket = WebSocket(scope=scope, receive=receive, send=send)
    await websocket.accept()
    await websocket.send_text('Hello, world!')
    await websocket.close()
```

WebSockets present a mapping interface, so you can use them in the same
way as a `scope`.

For instance: `websocket['path']` will return the ASGI path.

#### URL

The websocket URL is accessed as `websocket.url`.

The property is actually a subclass of `str`, and also exposes all the
components that can be parsed out of the URL.

For example: `websocket.url.path`, `websocket.url.port`, `websocket.url.scheme`.

#### Headers

Headers are exposed as an immutable, case-insensitive, multi-dict.

For example: `websocket.headers['sec-websocket-version']`

#### Query Parameters

Query parameters are exposed as an immutable multi-dict.

For example: `websocket.query_params['search']`

#### Path Parameters

Router path parameters are exposed as a dictionary interface.

For example: `websocket.path_params['username']`

### Accepting the connection

* `await websocket.accept(subprotocol=None, headers=None)`

### Sending data

* `await websocket.send_text(data)`
* `await websocket.send_bytes(data)`
* `await websocket.send_json(data)`

JSON messages default to being sent over text data frames, from version 0.10.0 onwards.
Use `websocket.send_json(data, mode="binary")` to send JSON over binary data frames.

### Receiving data

* `await websocket.receive_text()`
* `await websocket.receive_bytes()`
* `await websocket.receive_json()`

May raise `starlette.websockets.WebSocketDisconnect()`.

JSON messages default to being received over text data frames, from version 0.10.0 onwards.
Use `websocket.receive_json(data, mode="binary")` to receive JSON over binary data frames.

### Iterating data

* `websocket.iter_text()`
* `websocket.iter_bytes()`
* `websocket.iter_json()`

Similar to `receive_text`, `receive_bytes`, and `receive_json` but returns an
async iterator.

```python hl_lines="7-8"
from starlette.websockets import WebSocket


async def app(scope, receive, send):
    websocket = WebSocket(scope=scope, receive=receive, send=send)
    await websocket.accept()
    async for message in websocket.iter_text():
        await websocket.send_text(f"Message text was: {message}")
    await websocket.close()
```

When `starlette.websockets.WebSocketDisconnect` is raised, the iterator will exit.

### Closing the connection

* `await websocket.close(code=1000, reason=None)`

### Sending and receiving messages

If you need to send or receive raw ASGI messages then you should use
`websocket.send()` and `websocket.receive()` rather than using the raw `send` and
`receive` callables. This will ensure that the websocket's state is kept
correctly updated.

* `await websocket.send(message)`
* `await websocket.receive()`

### Send Denial Response

If you call `websocket.close()` before calling `websocket.accept()` then
the server will automatically send a HTTP 403 error to the client.

If you want to send a different error response, you can use the
`websocket.send_denial_response()` method. This will send the response
and then close the connection.

* `await websocket.send_denial_response(response)`

This requires the ASGI server to support the WebSocket Denial Response
extension. If it is not supported a `RuntimeError` will be raised.

In the context of `Starlette`, you can also use the `HTTPException` to achieve the same result.

```python
from starlette.applications import Starlette
from starlette.exceptions import HTTPException
from starlette.routing import WebSocketRoute
from starlette.websockets import WebSocket


def is_authorized(subprotocols: list[str]):
    if len(subprotocols) != 2:
        return False
    if subprotocols[0] != "Authorization":
        return False
    # Here we are hard coding the token, in a real application you would validate the token
    # against a database or an external service.
    if subprotocols[1] != "token":
        return False
    return True


async def websocket_endpoint(websocket: WebSocket):
    subprotocols = websocket.scope["subprotocols"]
    if not is_authorized(subprotocols):
        raise HTTPException(status_code=401, detail="Unauthorized")
    await websocket.accept("Authorization")
    await websocket.send_text("Hello, world!")
    await websocket.close()


app = Starlette(debug=True, routes=[WebSocketRoute("/ws", websocket_endpoint)])
```

<!-- Test the above with `npx wscat -c ws://localhost:8000/ws -s Authorization -s token` -->

Commit message:

docs: note about websocket support in uvicorn

docs/websockets.md, after:


Starlette includes a `WebSocket` class that fulfils a similar role
to the HTTP request, but that allows sending and receiving data on a websocket.

**Note:** Starlette doesn't implement the websocket protocol, this must be handled
by your ASGI web server. For example, uvicorn will need either the `wsproto` or
`websockets` PyPI package installed.

### WebSocket

Signature: `WebSocket(scope, receive=None, send=None)`

```python
from starlette.websockets import WebSocket


async def app(scope, receive, send):
    websocket = WebSocket(scope=scope, receive=receive, send=send)
    await websocket.accept()
    await websocket.send_text('Hello, world!')
    await websocket.close()
```

WebSockets present a mapping interface, so you can use them in the same
way as a `scope`.

For instance: `websocket['path']` will return the ASGI path.

#### URL

The websocket URL is accessed as `websocket.url`.

The property is actually a subclass of `str`, and also exposes all the
components that can be parsed out of the URL.

For example: `websocket.url.path`, `websocket.url.port`, `websocket.url.scheme`.

#### Headers

Headers are exposed as an immutable, case-insensitive, multi-dict.

For example: `websocket.headers['sec-websocket-version']`

#### Query Parameters

Query parameters are exposed as an immutable multi-dict.

For example: `websocket.query_params['search']`

#### Path Parameters

Router path parameters are exposed as a dictionary interface.

For example: `websocket.path_params['username']`

### Accepting the connection

* `await websocket.accept(subprotocol=None, headers=None)`

### Sending data

* `await websocket.send_text(data)`
* `await websocket.send_bytes(data)`
* `await websocket.send_json(data)`

JSON messages default to being sent over text data frames, from version 0.10.0 onwards.
Use `websocket.send_json(data, mode="binary")` to send JSON over binary data frames.

### Receiving data

* `await websocket.receive_text()`
* `await websocket.receive_bytes()`
* `await websocket.receive_json()`

May raise `starlette.websockets.WebSocketDisconnect()`.

JSON messages default to being received over text data frames, from version 0.10.0 onwards.
Use `websocket.receive_json(data, mode="binary")` to receive JSON over binary data frames.

### Iterating data

* `websocket.iter_text()`
* `websocket.iter_bytes()`
* `websocket.iter_json()`

Similar to `receive_text`, `receive_bytes`, and `receive_json` but returns an
async iterator.

```python hl_lines="7-8"
from starlette.websockets import WebSocket


async def app(scope, receive, send):
    websocket = WebSocket(scope=scope, receive=receive, send=send)
    await websocket.accept()
    async for message in websocket.iter_text():
        await websocket.send_text(f"Message text was: {message}")
    await websocket.close()
```

When `starlette.websockets.WebSocketDisconnect` is raised, the iterator will exit.

### Closing the connection

* `await websocket.close(code=1000, reason=None)`

### Sending and receiving messages

If you need to send or receive raw ASGI messages then you should use
`websocket.send()` and `websocket.receive()` rather than using the raw `send` and
`receive` callables. This will ensure that the websocket's state is kept
correctly updated.

* `await websocket.send(message)`
* `await websocket.receive()`

### Send Denial Response

If you call `websocket.close()` before calling `websocket.accept()` then
the server will automatically send a HTTP 403 error to the client.

If you want to send a different error response, you can use the
`websocket.send_denial_response()` method. This will send the response
and then close the connection.

* `await websocket.send_denial_response(response)`

This requires the ASGI server to support the WebSocket Denial Response
extension. If it is not supported a `RuntimeError` will be raised.

In the context of `Starlette`, you can also use the `HTTPException` to achieve the same result.

```python
from starlette.applications import Starlette
from starlette.exceptions import HTTPException
from starlette.routing import WebSocketRoute
from starlette.websockets import WebSocket


def is_authorized(subprotocols: list[str]):
    if len(subprotocols) != 2:
        return False
    if subprotocols[0] != "Authorization":
        return False
    # Here we are hard coding the token, in a real application you would validate the token
    # against a database or an external service.
    if subprotocols[1] != "token":
        return False
    return True


async def websocket_endpoint(websocket: WebSocket):
    subprotocols = websocket.scope["subprotocols"]
    if not is_authorized(subprotocols):
        raise HTTPException(status_code=401, detail="Unauthorized")
    await websocket.accept("Authorization")
    await websocket.send_text("Hello, world!")
    await websocket.close()


app = Starlette(debug=True, routes=[WebSocketRoute("/ws", websocket_endpoint)])
```

<!-- Test the above with `npx wscat -c ws://localhost:8000/ws -s Authorization -s token` -->
